=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

signatures - Subroutine signatures with no source filter

=head1 VERSION

version 0.10

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use signatures;

    sub foo ($bar, $baz) {
        return $bar + $baz;
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

With this module, we can specify subroutine signatures and have variables
automatically defined within the subroutine.

For example, you can write

    sub square ($num) {
        return $num * $num;
    }

and it will be automatically turned into the following at compile time:

    sub square {
        my ($num) = @_;
        return $num * $num;
    }

Note that, although the syntax is very similar, the signatures provided by this
module are not to be confused with the prototypes described in L<perlsub>. All
this module does is extracting items of @_ and assigning them to the variables
in the parameter list. No argument validation is done at runtime.

The signature definition needs to be on a single line only.

If you want to combine sub signatures with regular prototypes a C<proto>
attribute exists:

    sub foo ($bar, $baz) : proto($$) { ... }

=head1 METHODS

If you want subroutine signatures doing something that this module doesn't
provide, like argument validation, typechecking and similar, you can subclass
it and override the following methods.

=head2 proto_unwrap ($prototype)

Turns the extracted C<$prototype> into code.

The default implementation returns C<< my (${prototype}) = @_; >> or an empty
string, if no prototype is given.

=head2 inject ($offset, $code)

Inserts a C<$code> string into the line perl currently parses at the given
C<$offset>. This is only called by the C<callback> method.

=head2 callback ($offset, $prototype)

This gets called as soon as a sub definition with a prototype is
encountered. Arguments are the C<$offset> within the current line perl
is parsing and extracted C<$prototype>.

The default implementation calls C<proto_unwrap> with the prototype and passes
the returned value and the offset to C<inject>.

=for Pod::Coverage setup setup_for teardown teardown_for

=head1 BUGS

=over 4

=item prototypes aren't checked for validity yet

You won't get a warning for invalid prototypes using the C<proto> attribute,
like you normally would with warnings enabled.

=item you shouldn't alter $SIG{__WARN__} at compile time

After this module is loaded you shouldn't make any changes to C<$SIG{__WARN__}>
during compile time. Changing it before the module is loaded or at runtime is
fine.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Method::Signatures>

L<MooseX::Method::Signatures>

L<Sub::Signatures>

L<Attribute::Signature>

L<Perl6::Subs>

L<Perl6::Parameters>

=head1 THANKS

=for stopwords Moritz Lenz Steffen Schwigon

Moritz Lenz and Steffen Schwigon for documentation review and
improvement.

=head1 AUTHOR

Florian Ragwitz <rafl@debian.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2008 by Florian Ragwitz.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Karen Etheridge Peter Martini Alexandr Ciornii Father Chrysostomos Alex Kapranoff Steffen Schwigon

=over 4

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=item *

Peter Martini <PeterCMartini@GMail.com>

=item *

Alexandr Ciornii <alexchorny@gmail.com>

=item *

Father Chrysostomos <sprout@cpan.org>

=item *

Alex Kapranoff <alex@kapranoff.ru>

=item *

Steffen Schwigon <ss5@renormalist.net>

=back

=cut
